daprd doc (#1662)
dapr/docs: daprdocs/content/en/reference/daprd/daprd.md

---
type: docs

> title: "daprd"

Reviewer: We don't need to put this file in a directory, I'm not expecting additional daprd reference files (we can change that in the future if needed). Please rename this to "daprd reference" and move it directly under "reference" similar to the annotations file (currently in branch v1.2 but will be merged soon to v1.3).

linkTitle: "daprd"

> weight: 100

Reviewer: When this is moved up, please note the weight is set so the page is under the CLI reference

---

> Dapr runs along side of an application as a [sidecar](https://docs.dapr.io/concepts/overview/#sidecar-architecture). This sidecar is exposed as a process or a container depending on the environment it is being hosted on. For self hosted environments, the cli command `dapr run` starts the sidecar and for kubernetes environment dapr-sidecar-injector does that. Both of these are basically wrappers around the sidecar process - daprd. daprd is present in your dapr/bin folder

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dapr runs along side an application as a [sidecar](https://docs.dapr.io/concepts/overview/#sidecar-architecture). The sidecar is in practice a process running in the same environment as the application or in a separate container depending on where the application is hosted. For a self-hosted environment, the CLI command `dapr run` starts the sidecar as a process and for a Kubernetes environment the dapr-sidecar-injector does injects a container with a daprd process into the application's pod. After installing Dapr locally on your machine the `dapr init` command places the `daprd` executable in `.dapr/bin` under your home directory.
```

> Most of the time one would not need to use daprd explicitly as long as sidecar is being started by one of the above dapr methods. However, there could be use cases where a one would want to use daprd explicity. For example, while debugging, to find the application the sidecar is attached to or if the environment being used makes it unfeasible to use `dapr run`. The section below explores examples to use daprd along with some of its arguments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In most cases you would not need to run daprd explicitly, as the sidecar is either launched by the CLI (self-hosted mode) or by the Dapr control plane (Kubernetes). Examples of times when launching daprd directly may be useful include debugging, to find the application the sidecar is attached to or if the environment being used makes it unfeasible to use `dapr run` (e.g. automating sidecar launch on a VM) .
```

> ## Usage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Usage examples
```

> daprd can be used with many arguments for different scenarios. To know the list of all the arguments you can run a cli command `~/.dapr/bin/daprd --help` or checkout this [table](https://docs.dapr.io/reference/arguments-annotations-overview/) for comprehensive comparison between daprd options with cli and K8 annotation options

Reviewer: ```suggestion
daprd can be used with several arguments in different scenarios. For a detailed list of all available arguments run: `daprd --help` or see this [table](https://docs.dapr.io/reference/arguments-annotations-overview/) for a comprehensive comparison between daprd options with CLI and Kubernestes annotation options.
```

> 1. Start a sidecar along an application by specifying its unique ID. This is a required field

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Start a sidecar along an application by specifying its unique ID. Note `--app-id` is a required field:
```

```bash
~/.dapr/bin/daprd --app-id myapp
```

2. Specify the port your application is listening to

```bash
~/.dapr/bin/daprd --app-id --app-port 5000
```

> 3. If you are using many different components and want your app to be pointed to a specific one, you can specify the component directory dapr should look into

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. If you are using several custom components and want to specify the location of the component definition files, use the `--components-path` argument:
```
